===== PAGE 1 =====
880 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ANTENNAS AND PROPAGATION, VOL. 49, NO. 6, JUNE 2001
Novel Gaussian Beam Method for the Rapid Analysis
of Large Reflector Antennas
Hsi-Tseng Chou, Prabhakar H. Pathak, Fellow, IEEE, and Robert J. Burkholder, Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract— A relatively fast and simple method utilizing
Gaussian beams (GBs) is developed which requires only a few sec-
onds on a workstation to compute the near/far fields of electrically
large reflector antennas when they are illuminated by a feed with
a known radiation pattern. This GB technique is fast, because it
completely avoids any numerical integration on the large reflector
surface which is required in the conventional physical optics (PO)
analysis of such antennas and which could take several hours
on a workstation. Specifically, the known feed radiation field
is represented by a set of relatively few, rotationally symmetric
GBs that are launched radially out from the feed plane and with
almost identical interbeam angular spacing. These GBs strike the
reflector surface from where they are reflected, and also diffracted
by the reflector edge; the expressions for the fields reflected and
diffracted by the reflector illuminated with a general astigmatic
incident GB from an arbitrary direction (but not close to grazing
on the reflector) have been developed in [1] and utilized in this
work. Numerical results are presented to illustrate the versatility,
accuracy, and efficiency of this GB method when it is used for
analyzing general offset parabolic reflectors with a single feed or
an array feed, as well as for analyzing nonparabolic reflectors
such as those described by ellipsoidal and even general shaped
surfaces.
Index Terms— Gaussian beams, reflector antennas.
I. I NTRODUCTION
A
FAST procedure based on a novel application of Gaussian
beams (GBs) is described in this paper for predicting the
near and far fields of electrically large reflectors, with slowly
varying surface properties, when they are illuminated by a given
feed antenna or a feed array. The conventional procedure for
computing the fields of reflectors requires a numerical integra-
tion of the physical optics (PO) integral over the reflector sur-
face; this can become computationally very slow and highly in-
efficient for large reflectors. Computational speed is particularly
essential when performing reflector antenna synthesis wherein
the reflector radiation pattern needs to be computed during each
iterative step of the synthesis algorithm until the desired radia-
tion pattern is obtained to within some prescribed bounds. Thus,
in such a synthesis procedure, the numerical PO method may be-
come nearly intractable for large reflectors. The present GB pro-
cedure for predicting the near and far fields of the reflector an-
Manuscript received November 19, 1996; revised March 6, 2000. This work
was supported in part by the Joint Services Electronics Program and the National
Science Council of Taiwan.
H.-T. Chou is with Yuan-Ze University, Department of Electrical Engi-
neering, Chung-Li, Taiwan.
P. H. Pathak and R. J. Burkholder are with The Ohio State University Elec-
troScience Laboratory, Department of Electrical Engineering, Columbus, OH
43212 USA.
Publisher Item Identifier S 0018-926X(01)03586-4.
tenna completely avoids any time-consuming numerical PO in-
tegration on the reflector surface. As a result, the present method
is extremely fast as will be demonstrated for the analysis of large
reflector antennas. A wide variety of applications of this GB
method are presented here to illustrate its efficiency, versatility,
and accuracy by analyzing not only offset parabolic reflectors
with a single feed or an array feed, but also nonparabolic reflec-
tors made up, for example, of ellipsoidal and even more general
shaped surfaces.
Specifically,the electromagnetic (EM)radiation from aknown
feed, or from a known feed array, is represented by a set
of relatively few GBs. The number of GBs required and the
waists of the GBs at their launch points, as well as their axial
direction at launch, are selected according to some simple
criteria. An efficient point matching procedure, or a least squares
method, can be employed for accurately determining the GB
expansion coefficients (i.e., the initial amplitudes of the GBs
at their points of launching). Once these GBs are launched
from a single point, or in special cases from a very small
number of points in the feed plane, they strike the reflector
surface where they undergo reflection and diffraction by the
surface of the parabolic reflector and its edge, respectively.
Explicit, closed-form expressions for the fields associated with
the reflection and diffraction of any given incident GB by a
smooth reflector containing an edge, which have been derived
in detail in a previous paper [1], are employed here. It is
important to note that the closed-form expressions for the fields
associated with the reflection and diffraction of any single GB
which is incident on the reflector have been developed in [1],
via an asymptotic evaluation of the corresponding radiation
integral that is approximated therein by PO, for the single
GB illumination case. Thus, the GB analysis presented here
for predicting the total reflector near/far fields provides an
asymptotic closed-form analytical solution of the PO integral
for reflectors; this is in contrast to the conventional numerical
evaluation of the PO integral. Indeed, the present closed-form
PO-based GB analysis is shown here to have essentially the
same level of accuracy as the numerical PO solution. It is well
known that the PO approximation can be improved by using
an edge diffraction correction based on the physical theory
of diffraction (PTD) [2], [26], [3]; such a correction can be
incorporated in a straightforward manner. Clearly, since the
present GB analysis actually represents a closed-form solution
of the PO integral itself, this GB analysis can thus be corrected
by simply adding to it the exact same PTD correction as
is done for the conventional solution based on a numerical
evaluation of the PO integral. In particular, the PTD edge
diffraction correction can be added to the PO solution as a
0018–926X/01$10.00 © 2001 IEEE
===== PAGE 2 =====
CHOU et al.: NOVEL GAUSSIAN BEAM METHOD FOR THE RAPID ANALYSIS OF LARGE REFLECTOR ANTENNAS 881
line integral contribution around the reflector edge [4]–[10],
[27]. Such a PTD correction provides an improvement to
the PO based analysis primarily in regions of lower field
levels. In the case of reflector antennas the PTD thus provides
some improvement in the wide-angle sidelobe region. As an
alternative to the PTD-based correction to PO, one can first
employ the present PO-based GB solution in the region of
the main beam and first few sidelobes, and then switch to the
uniform geometrical theory of diffraction (UTD) [10]–[13] ray
solution in the region of the intermediate and far-out sidelobes
of reflector antennas. One notes that the UTD ray solution
fails in regions of focused or nearly focused fields such as
within the main beam regions of parabolic reflectors with a
feed located at or near the reflector focus. Thus, the common
approach for avoiding this difficulty of the UTD ray approach
in focused regions of the radiated fields is to utilize the PO
approximation in those regions where UTD fails; however,
because the PO integral is evaluated numerically over the large
reflector surface, it thus becomes highly inefficient as indicated
earlier. The UTD approach, on the other hand, requires no
integration on the reflector, and hence it is very efficient in
its regions of validity. It is seen that the present GB approach
retains all the advantages of the UTD ray method, and it has
the important added advantage that it also remains valid in
regions of focused or nearly focused fields where UTD fails.
In fact, the present PO-based GB method may be viewed as
a UTD for GBs which is analogous to UTD for rays except
that the rays are now replaced here by GBs (where the GBs,
unlike rays, remain valid in regions of focused fields). A
PTD correction to this PO-based GB method, or alternatively
switching from this GB to a UTD analysis outside the main
beam region, can be accomplished in a straightforward fashion
to improve the PO-based GB method as mentioned above;
however, these have not been included in the present work.
The use of GBs as EM field basis functions has been studied
and demonstrated by several authors in the past, notably in
[14]–[18] to represent the fields of aperture antennas. The
Gabor expansion was used therein to represent the known
aperture field with Gaussian functions as basis elements in
that expansion. The field of each of these Gaussian elements
evolved from the aperture to the external region thereby directly
providing the near and far fields of the aperture in closed
form. The GB expansion employed here has some similarities
to that in [14]–[16] but at the same time is also significantly
different from it in the manner in which the GBs are chosen
as will be discussed below. The aperture is discretized in
[14]–[16] using a doubly periodic array of lattice points on
which the Gaussian basis elements are centered. The fields
external to the aperture consist of a set of GBs (where each GB
is described within the paraxial region of the fields radiated by
each Gaussian basis element). The GBs are launched radially
outward from each of the periodic array of points that are
chosen to discretize the aperture as in Fig. 1. Such a field
representation constitutes a GB expansion in “phase-space.”
When the period
and of the lattice is specified in the
and directions, then the Gabor expansion automatically
provides information on the launching angle and the waist
size of the rotationally symmetric GBs that emanate from
Fig. 1. GB expansion for the fields radiated from a periodic array of lattice
points in the aperture defined over /106/120/106/20/97/61/50; /106/121/106/20/98/61/50; /122/61/48. The GBs
are launched radially out from each lattice point in the periodic array. The lattice
points may typically correspond to the phase center of each subaperture (of size
/68 /2 /68).
each lattice point. While there are an infinite number of
GBs launched from each of the finite number of lattice
points in [14]–[16], only the finite number of propagating
GBs are significant outside the close neighborhood of the
aperture; all the remaining GBs are evanescent and contribute
negligibly except for points very close to the aperture. In
practice, only a few evanescent GBs are typically needed in
addition to the finite number of propagating GBs to accurately
synthesize the original field distribution in the aperture. The
coefficients of the GB expansion; i.e., the initial complex
amplitudes of the GBs at launch, are found in [14]–[16] using
the biorthogonality properties of the Gabor expansion. In [16],
a Gabor-based GB expansion was also employed for analyzing
the transmission of the fields of a planar aperture through
plane and curved dielectric layers. However, previous work
in using the Gabor representation was primarily restricted
to two-dimensional (2-D) geometries in which the aperture
was one-dimensional (1-D) (or linear) in extent; also, the
diffraction of GBs was not included in those applications.
An analysis of the reflector radiation pattern using a single
GB to model the feed radiation was developed in [17] for
the three-dimensional (3-D) problem, but the reflector edges
were illuminated negligibly in that case also, and so the
diffraction of the GB by the edges was excluded in [17].
An analysis of GB diffraction by a straight edge has been
presented previously in [19]–[22]. It is noted that the work
presented here is based on [1] which allows one to treat
the substantially more general and practical problem of GB
reflection and diffraction by a general curved surface which
is truncated in a rather general but locally planar curved edge.
In the present application of the GB method, a procedure dif-
ferent from the Gabor expansion is utilized to analyze the fields
radiated by a 3-D offset parabolic reflector that is illuminated
by a realistic feed antenna as mentioned earlier. Furthermore,
the feed illumination is such that the effects of diffraction by
the reflector edge are important, as is true in most applications,
and hence cannot be neglected. It is noted that a Gabor expan-
sion could also have been utilized in the present GB approach
to represent the fields incident on the reflector from the given
===== PAGE 3 =====
882 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ANTENNAS AND PROPAGATION, VOL. 49, NO. 6, JUNE 2001
feed antenna. An advantage of the Gabor type expansion is that
it guarantees completeness a priori and essentially removes any
arbitrariness in the choice of initial beam parameters once the
lattice spacing is chosen. However, the Gabor expansion gives
rise to nonidentical GBs with nonuniform angular or interbeam
spacing at launch thus providing less control on the choice of
initial beam parameters; also, the coefficients of the GB ex-
pansion based on the Gabor representation generally require
a relatively complicated numerical computation of biorthogo-
nality integrals. Therefore, a somewhat different approach is
employed here as it is very convenient for engineering appli-
cations. Specifically, the set of
GBs that are launched from
each of the lattice points of Fig. 1 in the present approach are
such that they have the same interbeam spacing, (defined
later) and, except for the different launching directions and po-
larization, all of the GBs are otherwise identical and rotation-
ally symmetric. Relatively simple rules are developed for the
choice of initial GB parameters in the present approach which
also offer more control of these parameters. The computation
of the GB coefficients (i.e., initial GB launching amplitudes)
in the GB expansion are found through a relatively straightfor-
ward and efficient point-matching approach, or a least squares
approach. It is important to note that in the present approach, the
initial launching amplitudes of the GBs in the expansion for the
feed radiation are chosen to match the far zone fields of the feed
antenna which illuminates the reflector, rather than to match the
feed antenna aperture field distribution. Consequently only the
usual propagating GBs need to be included in the present ex-
pansion and no evanescent GBs are required.
It is noted that, for most realistic single feed reflector antenna
applications, only one lattice point [
at in Fig. 1,
where is the phase center of the feed in the feed coordinates
( )] is sufficient. For feed arrays, it may be necessary
to have more than one lattice point if the reflector is not truly
in the far zone of the entire array. For offset parabolic reflec-
tors whose projected apertures range from about
to in
diameter (where free space wavelength), it is seen in the
present applications that the number of GBs required is ap-
proximately 45 with (corresponding to a single lattice
point at the phase center, of the feed antenna).
The format of this paper is as follows. In Section II, the gen-
eral procedure for expanding the fields radiated by the feed an-
tenna in terms of GBs is developed. The analysis of the near- and
far-zone radiation pattern of fairly general offset reflector an-
tennas is presented next in Section III specifically using the rel-
atively simple closed-form expressions developed earlier in [1]
for the reflection and diffraction of an arbitrary GB by a curved
edge in a curved surface. Several numerical results based on this
GB method are presented in Section IV for analyzing parabolic,
ellipsoidal and even shaped reflectors; the computation of these
results are shown to be extremely fast and accurate. In partic-
ular, it is noted that the present approach can provide the near
and far fields of relatively large sized reflectors in a matter of
only a few seconds on a workstation, whereas, the conventional
numerical integration of the PO integral over the reflector sur-
face requires several hours on the same workstation to furnish
the same results. An
time dependence for the fields is as-
sumed and suppressed.
Fig. 2. Coordinate system /40/120/59/121/59/122/41whose origin /79 is the phase
reference for the feed. Also, coordinates /40/120 /59/121/59/122/41fixed in the
/109th GB launched from the /110th lattice point in the /122/61/48feed plane.
II. GB E XPANSION FOR THE FEED ANTENNA RADIATION
Let the feed antenna, which illuminates the reflector, radiate
the electromagnetic fields . One can express the fields
in the far zone of the feed antenna as
(1a)
(1b)
where the radiation pattern functions and in any direc-
tion (with as in Fig. 2) are known. Here is the free
space wavenumber and is the free space impedance .
One may represent in (1a) in terms of a GB expan-
sion, i.e., in terms of a sequence of GBs, by
(2)
where propagating rotationally symmetric GBs are launched
from each of the lattice points in the feed plane which is the
plane as depicted previously in Fig. 1 such that the an-
gular interbeam spacing [see (6)] between any pair of adja-
cent GBs is a constant. A typical th lattice point at where
is shown in Fig. 2. The direction is per-
pendicular to the feed plane and it constitutes the feed boresight
direction. Comments will be added later to deal with general
rules for selecting the values of and . The magnetic field
associated with each rotationally symmetric GB basis function
===== PAGE 4 =====
CHOU et al.: NOVEL GAUSSIAN BEAM METHOD FOR THE RAPID ANALYSIS OF LARGE REFLECTOR ANTENNAS 883
in (2) is given by
(3)
where are local coordinates which are
fixed in the th propagating GB launched from the th lattice
point with being the axial direction of that GB. The
additional phase term in (2) simply references the phase
of launched from to the feed coordinate origin at the
central point . In this work, it is of interest to evaluate
in (2) to represent [on the left hand side of (2)] in the
far zone of the feed; hence, it suffices to choose the polarization
vector by
(4)
The above value of is valid within the paraxial region of the
GB in (3); this is certainly true in the far zone of the feed. Fur-
thermore, in this far-zone representation, the axis of every
th
GB beam emanating from all the lattice points will always be
parallel to each other, so that the polarization in (4) is identical
for every th GB launched from each of the lattice points.
The coefficients of expansions in (2) can be found in a
relatively simple manner, since the feed pattern is known, using
the point matching technique so that (2) can be reduced to a set
of linear simultaneous equations that can be solved using stan-
dard matrix inversion. For reflector feed antenna applications,
the
total coefficients are relatively small in number
so that the size of the matrix to be inverted is not large, thereby
making it very efficient to find . Alternatively, the can
be found via a least squares approach.
For the present application, it is important to note that one
is concerned here with the development of a GB expansion for
representing the radiation pattern of a feed antenna in which
the feed is always relatively small in size as compared to the
reflector which it illuminates so that it is essentially in the far
zone of the feed; hence, for this application, and even for a feed
array which can be used to illuminate a reflector under similar
conditions, it suffices to have just a single lattice point (i.e.,
only) at in Fig. 2 from where rotationally symmetric
GBs are launched. Thus, there are a total of only
GBs in this case. The case where a large feed
array needs to be decomposed into subarrays is the topic of a
separate paper which also addresses the problem of reflector
feed array synthesis in contoured beam applications [23]. Before
determining the number of GBs, one can define a cone of half
angle
whose apex is at . This cone half angle is
measured from the cone axis which is also the feed axis (or
feed boresight); it is chosen to adequately cover the solid angle
Fig. 3. Cone of half-angle /18 which encloses the reflector with a feed at/79.
The reflector has an offset as shown by the distance /100. The projected reflector
diameter is /68, and the reflector focal length is /70.
subtended by the reflector edge from the point as shown
in Fig. 3. It is important to note that the feed pattern needs to
be represented in terms of the GB expansion only within this
cone of half angle
to calculate the fields scattered from the
reflector surface; thus it is not necessary to find a GB expansion
for the feed radiation outside this cone. It is convenient next to
introduce the mapping
(5)
It is clear from (5) that and that
with . Since is undefined as
it is convenient to let in this case. The angular inter-
beam separation is chosen to be a constant between all the GBs.
In particular, this condition can be satisfied if the interbeam an-
gular spacings
and in the space satisfy the
following:
(6)
where is a constant. The axial direction of each of the
GBs launched from the single point is shown by dots in
the spherically angular space of Fig. 4. The beams
in Fig. 4 can be regrouped into a set of beams in the
space. Thus, , and for each th GB
there is a corresponding pair of numbers .
According to Fig. 4, one allows to vary from to along
the axis where
(7)
(8)
and denotes the integer portion of the argument. For a
given , the number of GBs in the direction is
(9)
===== PAGE 5 =====
884 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ANTENNAS AND PROPAGATION, VOL. 49, NO. 6, JUNE 2001
Fig. 4. Dots indicate the directions of the /77GBs in the space /40/18/59/18/41. This
/40/18/59/18/41space covers the region on the reflector surface and its neighborhood
which lies within the cone of half angle /18 of Fig. 3.
The index in the direction is chosen such that if is an even
number then
(10)
otherwise
(11)
Using (8) and (10) in yields
(12)
Up to this point, it is assumed that is known so that is
therefore also known for a given . With this information,
one can solve for the coefficients in (2) for the
case of interest using the point matching technique
as discussed earlier.
For the case, one is referred to Fig. 1 which indicates
how GBs are launched from lattice points. As indicated
earlier, one may need if the reflector is not almost in the
far zone of a feed array. In such situations, usually suf-
fices. Points of the rectangular lattice may correspond to the
phase centers of subapertures into which the original aper-
ture ; is discretized. This situation can be
treated in exactly the same fashion as done for the single lat-
tice ( ) case, because the GBs launched from each th
lattice point in Fig. 1 are required to represent
only the radiation field which is generated by each of the corre-
sponding th subaperture containing only the th lattice point.
Furthermore, one can define a for each th lattice point
in the same way as defined in Fig. 4 for the case,
except that in Fig. 3 must now be replaced by of Fig. 2.
The procedure to find the amplitudes of the GBs launched
from the th lattice is then exactly analogous to that done above
for the case.
It now remains to present some rules for determining and
the parameter in (3) which indicates the size of the GB waist.
Here, is the same for each of the identical, rotationally sym-
metric GBs at launch. It was determined through numerical ex-
perimentation in [6], [27] that
(13)
with (where free space wavelength). This result
was obtained in two dimensions (2-D) by first assuming that
the radiation pattern function (in this case, and ) is slowly
varying with respect to . It was also assumed for the 2-D
case that for a given GB in the far field, only the two nearest or
adjacent GBs overlap significantly in the vicinity of the axis of
the given beam. However, the condition in (13) is found, again
via numerical experimentation, to be also sufficient for guaran-
teeing an adequate sampling of the feed pattern for the three-di-
mensional (3-D) case of interest in this work. That this condi-
tion in (13) should work well for 3-D is also due to the choice
of almost identical interbeam angular spacing as illustrated in
Fig. 4 where it is seen that the GBs along diametrically oppo-
site sides of any hexagonal lattice resemble three overlapping
GBs of the 2-D case mentioned earlier. The choice of the rela-
tionship between
and defined in (13) was found to give
excellent reproduction of the radiation pattern when used in the
GB expansion.
It therefore remains to determine . Firstly, one notes that the
half width of each of the rotationally symmetric GBs launched
from the feed plane has a spot area at any axial
distance from the launch point, where for the special GB
whose axis is along (see Fig. 3) the is given by
(14)
A solution for in terms of is obtained from (14) as
(15)
where it is generally more advantageous to pick the smaller of
the two values in (15) to ensure a smoother GB representation
of the feed pattern with fewer beams as is evident from (13).
The result in (15) provides a real valued only if
(16)
From (14) and (16), it follows that the spot size area is given
by
(17)
===== PAGE 6 =====
CHOU et al.: NOVEL GAUSSIAN BEAM METHOD FOR THE RAPID ANALYSIS OF LARGE REFLECTOR ANTENNAS 885
It was also indicated in [1, Appendix B] that a simple
closed-form approximation is available to accurately locate the
complex point of diffraction associated with the diffraction of
an incident GB by the edge of the reflector which it illuminates;
this simple closed-form result is valid provided
(with defined in [1], and also later in Section III of this
paper) which leads to
(18)
In (18), is the diameter of the circular boundary which cir-
cumscribes the projected aperture projected in any constant
plane by the reflector as for example in Fig. 3. Clearly must
therefore satisfy both the above conditions, namely the ones in
(17) and (18), simultaneously. Therefore, combining (17) and
(18) yields
or
(19)
Consequently, one may pick a convenient value of which sat-
isfies (19); this value of in turn provides a choice for the value
of via (15) and hence also for via (13) thereby specifying
each GB completely at launch. For more complex feed patterns,
one can always decrease from its value in (13) while keeping
the same as in (15); this allows the use of more GBs that may
become necessary in this case to more accurately reproduce the
complexity in the pattern. In general, the conditions in (13) and
(15) are sufficient for most types of simple feeds.
III. S CATTERING OF EACH GB IN THE EXPANSION FOR THE
FEED RADIATION WHICH ILLUMINATES THE REFLECTOR
SURFACE
Once the far-zone magnetic field radiated from the feed an-
tenna is expanded in terms of a set of GBs as shown in Section II,
then each GB which is launched from the feed plane in this ex-
pansion now illuminates the reflector from where it is scattered.
It is noted that the reflector may not be fully in the far zone of the
feed [as in the case where
in (2)] even though the GB
expansion is obtained from a knowledge of the far zone feed
radiation pattern, and the GB expansion thus obtained remains
valid even within the near zone (but excluding the extreme near
zone of the feed). The net field scattered by the reflector when
it is illuminated by the feed antenna is thus represented as a su-
perposition of the scattered fields produced by each GB when
they become incident on the reflector. The explicit results for the
scattering of an arbitrary GB by a smooth, electrically large re-
flecting surface containing an edge were developed in [1]; these
results which were obtained via an asymptotic evaluation of the
PO integral for the scattered field are summarized below for
convenience.
In [1], it was assumed that the surface of the original reflector
could be approximated by a local paraboloid at the point
(a)
(b)
Fig. 5. (a) The projected area of the parabolic surface /83on the /122/61/48plane
and (b) its mapping to the /40/26/59/32/41coordinate system. The quantities /26/59/30
and /30are explicitly shown.
where the th incident GB axis intersects the reflector surface
(or its mathematical extension past the edge). The local parab-
oloid at is given by
(20)
in which is normal to the original surface at , and
are the original principal surface directions at ,
respectively, as in Fig. 5. Also, is a unit vector normal to the
plane containing the edge with the principal radii of curvatures
, given by
(21)
where denotes the coordinate system for the
local parabolic surface at . It is assumed that the incident
magnetic field of the th rotationally symmetric GB incident
at is given by [1]
(22)
===== PAGE 7 =====
886 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ANTENNAS AND PROPAGATION, VOL. 49, NO. 6, JUNE 2001
where is the position vector in the
incident GB coordinate system which is also centered at
and is the incident magnetic field at , i.e., at
. The , , and are the elements of
the GB complex curvature (or phase) matrix at .
In particular, (22) reduces at to the following:
(23)
with
(24a)
and
(24b)
It is clear that appearing in (23) and (24a) represents the dis-
tance associated with the th GB. The transformation
matrix between the coordinates fixed in the incident GB and the
local surface coordinate system both of which are centered at
is
(25)
Clearly, the transformation matrix in (22) is known. The
scattered field which is produced when a GB is incident
on the local parabolic surface can be written asymptotically for
large
as
(26)
where represents the reflected field contribution to the
scattered field which actually would be the only contribution if
the edge were absent. Also, represents the edge diffracted
field contribution, and is a transition function that is ob-
tained via uniform asymptotics, which provides a modification
to the reflected component of the field resulting from the pres-
ence of the edge. Indeed, when the edge is present, only a part
of the incident GB is reflected from the surface, and the rest is
diffracted by the edge; thus, the effect of the surface reflection
is modified by the edge and the extent of this modification de-
pends on the proximity of
to the edge as measured by the
parameter of the transition function . It is noted that
denotes either the scattered electric field or the scattered
magnetic field according to the function which is
defined below. The individual field components of are sum-
marized in detail next.
A. Reflection Contribution
The reflected field is given by [1]
(27)
where
for
for .
(28)
and
(29)
In (23), denotes the distance between the observation point
and the complex stationary or reflection point on the complex
extension of the surface at in the coordinate
system at , and denotes its complex direction pointing to-
ward the observer at also in the system.
It is noted that the quantities and are
given in closed form as
(30a)
(30b)
(30c)
and
(31)
in which the coefficients and are
(32)
===== PAGE 8 =====
CHOU et al.: NOVEL GAUSSIAN BEAM METHOD FOR THE RAPID ANALYSIS OF LARGE REFLECTOR ANTENNAS 887
(33)
(34)
(35)
(36)
(37)
B. Edge Diffraction Contribution
The edge diffracted field is given by [1]
(38)
where
(39)
(40)
(41)
and
(42)
The coordinates above pertain to a complex saddle
point associated with edge diffraction. It is convenient to employ
polar coordinates in which to express ; in particular,
let
(43a)
(43b)
At this saddle point, the values of and are denoted
by and , respectively, or
(44a)
(44b)
Fig. 6. Near-field pattern at 5 GHz of an offset parabolic reflector illuminated
by a Huygens source located at the focus where /40/68/61/52 /48/59/70/61/51 /54/59/100/61
/48/59/122/61/52 /48/41. Forty-eight GBs are used.
where as in Fig. 6(a) and (b) with
(45)
(46)
(47)
and
(48)
(49)
The derivatives and are explicitly given in [1] by
(50)
and
(51)
It is noted that the saddle point which corresponds to
in an appropriate polar coordinate system [1] is the
solution of
(52)
where are given by [1]
(53)
(54)
===== PAGE 9 =====
888 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ANTENNAS AND PROPAGATION, VOL. 49, NO. 6, JUNE 2001
(55)
(56)
(57)
with and as
(58)
(59)
(60)
(61)
The approximate but accurate closed-form solution of (52) is
shown in [1], and it will not be repeated here.
C. Uniform Transition Function
The transition function is given by [1]
erf (62)
where denotes the Error function erf
and the parameter depends on
the complex distance between the complex saddle point for
reflection and the complex saddle point for edge diffraction
[see (63) at the bottom of the page], which is given in [1]. The
choice for the branch of the square root is based on a Taylor
expansion around the complex saddle point for reflection, i.e.,
sign
Re sign (64)
where
(65)
and denote a set of appropriate polar coordinate
values [1] corresponding to . Thus,
(66)
Fig. 7. Near-field pattern at 5 GHz of an offset parabolic reflector illuminated
by a Huygens source located at the focus where /40/68/61/52 /48/59/70/61/51 /54/59/100/61
/48/59/122/61 /49/48/48/41. Forty-eight GBs are used.
with . In (65) and (66), is given by [1]
(67)
However,itissuggestedthatforsmall theTaylorexpansionfor
of (63), which is essentially shown in (64), may be employed
directly to avoid any numerical error in the transition region.
IV . NUMERICAL RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
In this section, some numerical results are presented for the
GB-based analysis of the fields radiated from an offset parabolic
reflector illuminated by a single feed or feed array, as well as
from an offset ellipsoidal reflector, and from a shaped reflector
designed with a single feed to produce a contoured beam for the
continental United States (CONUS). The accuracy and efficiency
of the present GB approach is also discussed by comparing it with
a reference solution obtained via a conventional direct numerical
evaluation of the PO integral over the surface of the reflector.
The first case of interest here is the investigation of the near
field pattern of an offset parabolic reflector. The geometry for
this case is shown in Fig. 3 where the diameter
of the pro-
jected aperture is given by with , and the
focal length . Also is the location of the output
plane, and the near-field patterns are in the plane with
. The feed antenna is a simple Huygens source located at
the focus, and the frequency is 5 GHz. The Huygens source is
tilted so that its boresight (or axis) makes an angle
in the
plane given by , and its electric current moment lies in
the plane. Figs. 6 and 7 show the near field patterns of
(63)
===== PAGE 10 =====
CHOU et al.: NOVEL GAUSSIAN BEAM METHOD FOR THE RAPID ANALYSIS OF LARGE REFLECTOR ANTENNAS 889
(a)
(b)
(c)
Fig. 8. Co-polar and cross-polar far-field pattern at 10 GHz of an offset
parabolic reflector used in Fig. 6 when it is illuminated by a Huygens source
located at the focus. 32 GBs are used. (a) /30/61/48plane (co-polar). (b)
/30/61/57 /48plane (co-polar). (c) /30/61/48plane (cross-polar). Note that there is
no cross-polar field in the /30/61/57 /48plane.
this reflector at two different output planes. In particular, Fig. 6
shows the pattern in the output plane located at which
is relatively very close to the reflector, whereas Fig. 7 shows the
pattern in the output plane located at
which is still in
the near zone but much farther from the reflector. Both Figs. 6
and 7 show very good agreement with the reference solution. It
is noted that the present GB approach is based on the asymptotic
(a)
(b)
Fig. 9. Far-field pattern at 10 GHz of an offset parabolic reflector used in Fig. 6
when it is illuminated by a defocussed Huygens source located at/40/48/58/59/48/58/59/51/48/41.
Thirty-two GBs are used. (a) /30/61/48plane. (b) /30/61/57 /48plane.
Fig. 10. CPU time required on a silicon graphics workstation for the reference
numerical PO integration-based far field computation compared with that based
on GB expansion. The time shown is for computing 1802 pattern points for the
reflector used in Figs. 6–9. Note that the vertical scale is logarithmic.
development in [1] that employs a Fresnel approximation within
the PO radiation integral for the scattered field produced by each
incident GB. It is expected that some errors will occur if the
field point is not in the Fresnel zone over the spot area on the
===== PAGE 11 =====
890 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ANTENNAS AND PROPAGATION, VOL. 49, NO. 6, JUNE 2001
(a)
(b)
Fig. 11. Far-field pattern at 121.803 GHz for the parabolic reflector utilized
in Figs. 6–9 except that it is illuminated by a /57/2/57element rectangular array
with an interelement spacing of a half wavelength. The center of the array is
at the focus of the parabolic reflector. (a) /30/61/48plane. (b) /30/61/57 /48plane.
Eighty-nine GBs are used.
reflector which is made by each GB in the feed expansion. Fig. 7
shows the improvement in accuracy when all the field points are
properly located in the Fresnel zone at a larger distance
as compared to . Also, in the present application,
the spot area of the incident GB on the surface of the reflector
is assumed to be small compared with the total surface area of
the offset reflector as discussed in Section II. The total number
of GBs used is 48 in Figs. 6 and 7.
The second case of interest is the computation of the far-field
pattern for the same reflector as the one used in Figs. 6 and 7.
Again, the Huygens source feed is at the focus and its axis is
tilted at an angle
in the plane as before for this reflector
whose far zone pattern is shown in Fig. 8 at 10 GHz. When the
feed is defocussed, the far-zone pattern changes to that in Fig. 9.
It is noted that, being an asymptotic high-frequency solution,
the accuracy of the GB based solution increases with frequency.
Fig. 12. Near-field pattern at 11.803 GHz of an offset ellipsoidal reflector
illuminated by a Huygen’s source placed on the axis at a distance of 70 in
from the origin (see Fig. 3). Note that (
/68/61/56 /48in, /100/61/48in, /122/61 /49/48/48in).
Approximately 50 GBs are used.
Fig. 13. Far-field pattern at 11.803 GHz of an offset ellipsoidal reflector
illuminated by a Huygen’s source placed on the axis at a distance of 70 in from
the origin (see Fig. 3). Note that (
/68/61/56 /48in, /100/61/48in) for this case, which
is the same as for Fig. 12 except that this figure depicts the far-field pattern.
Approximately 50 GBs are used.
For the near-field case in Figs. 6 and 7, a total of 48 GBs is used
as indicated above; in the far zone one can further reduce the
number of GBs to 32 as in Figs. 8 and 9 and this number of GBs
stays the same even when the frequency is doubled. It is noted
that Fig. 8(c) indicates the cross-polar field radiated in the far
zone by the reflector. The CPU time for the GB approach is ap-
proximately 10 s on a Silicon Graphics workstation for a total
of 1802 field point samples used in each of the plots of Figs. 8
and 9; on the other hand, the CPU time for the reference numer-
ical PO solution increases rapidly with frequency as shown in
Fig. 10, and is typically given in terms of hours. The numerical
PO integration code used here, to provide the reference solu-
tion, employs a surface discretization in which the surface el-
ements are
square wavelengths in size. It is possible
to improve the efficiency of this numerical PO code somewhat;
===== PAGE 12 =====
CHOU et al.: NOVEL GAUSSIAN BEAM METHOD FOR THE RAPID ANALYSIS OF LARGE REFLECTOR ANTENNAS 891
Fig. 14. Normalized co-polarization contours based on the GB approach for CONUS coverage by a shaped concave reflector with a /40/99/111/115/18/41feed pattern at 12
GHz with /108/61/49 /56/58/53/49. Approximately 200 GBs were used.
Fig. 15. Normalized co-polarization gain contours based on the numerical PO integration approach for the same shaped reflector case as in Fig. 14.
however, even with that improvement, the numerical PO code
will still require significantly much larger computational time,
especially for higher frequencies, than the novel GB method of
solution presented here.
The third case considered here is the computation of the far
field pattern of the same parabolic reflector as the one utilized in
the computations of Figs. 6–9, except that it is now fed by a
element planar square antenna array whose center is at the focus
and whose boresight points toward the center of the reflector
at an angle as in the case of Figs. 7–9. Each radiating array
element consists of Huygens source identical to that employed
for the calculations in Figs. 6–9. The interelement array spacing
===== PAGE 13 =====
892 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ANTENNAS AND PROPAGATION, VOL. 49, NO. 6, JUNE 2001
TABLE I
VALUES FOR THE COEFFICIENTS /67 AND /68 OF THE SURFACE MODIFIED
JACOBI POLYNOMIAL-BASED EXPANSION FOR A SHAPED REFLECTOR THAT
PRODUCES A CONUS CONTOURED BEAM SHOWN IN FIGS.1 4 AND 15
is half a free space wavelength in this case. The total number of
GBs employed here is 89. Also, in this case, and the
89 GBs are launched from the single lattice point at the focus.
The far field pattern is computed at 11.803 GHz in the
and planes, respectively, for this array fed parabolic
reflector case; this pattern is shown in Fig. 11 along with the
reference numerical PO solution.
The fourth case considered is the near field pattern at 11.803
GHz of an offset ellipsoidal reflector fed by a Huygens source
which is located on the
axis (or the axis of symmetry of the
parent ellipsoid) at a distance from the coordinate
origin in Fig. 3. The value of , and the offset distance of
Fig. 3 are indicated below in Fig. 12 for this case. The near
field result shown in Fig. 12 is evaluated at
in the
– (or ) plane and compared with the numerical PO
reference solution. It is noted that the feed tilt angle is chosen
so that the feed axis (or boresight) strikes the center of the offset
ellipsoidal reflector surface. A total of approximately 50 GBs
are used. Fig. 13 shows the far field pattern in the
plane
for the same reflector as in Fig. 12 and at the same frequency,
namely 11.803 GHz.
The final case considered here is the calculation of the
far-zone contoured beam produced by a shaped concave re-
flector designed for CONUS coverage. The reflector shape was
obtained from elsewhere [24] and was given as an expansion
in terms of a product of the modified Jacobi polynomials
and trigonometric functions. Such a surface representation is
being commonly used for describing shaped reflectors and it
is specifically given in [25]. The coefficients
and
of this surface modified Jacobi polynomial based expansion,
as in [25], where the indices and here are distinct from and
not to be confused with the GB expansion of Section II, are
summarized below in Table I. A type feed pattern is
assumed where . This shaped reflector was designed
in [24] to produce three gain zones over the CONUS coverage
region for compensating rain attenuation exactly as shown in
[25, Fig. 4]. Referring to Fig. 3, it is noted that this general
concave shaped reflector has
, , feed
at a distance of from the origin. The feed tilt
angle for this case. Normalized constant far zone
gain contours are shown in Fig. 14 for this CONUS coverage.
The GB-based calculation of the contoured beam over an
angular (elevation
azimuth) grid of points to cover
the CONUS region is shown in Fig. 14. The corresponding
numerical PO-based reference solution for this case is shown
in Fig. 15 for comparison. Both Figs. 14 and 15 show nor-
malized gain contours for co-polarized pattern contributions;
the cross-polarized contributions are also found to agree just
as well as the co-polarized ones, but are not shown here for
space limitations [see Fig. 8(c) for the cross-polar radiation
for a different case]. The GB method used approximately 200
GBs and took less than 5 minutes of CPU time, whereas the
numerical PO method used to provide reference results for
comparison took about 6 h for the same calculations.
It is clear that the present GB method for analyzing reflector
antennas is accurate, very fast, physically appealing, and versa-
tile. From the result of Fig. 14, it is obvious that the GB method
should be extremely fast for also synthesizing shaped reflec-
tors in contoured beam applications. The application of this GB
method to shaped reflector synthesis is currently under study. In
addition, the extension of this GB method for an efficient anal-
ysis/synthesis of dual reflectors is also currently under study.
R
EFERENCES
[1] H.-T. Chou and P.H. Pathak, “Uniform asymptotic solution for the EM
reflection and diffraction of an arbitrary Gaussian beam by a smooth
surface with an edge,” J. Radio Sci. , vol. 32, no. 4, pp. 1319–1336,
July–Aug. 1997.
[2] P. Y . Ufimstev, “Method of edge waves in the physical theory of diffrac-
tion,” Translation prepared by the U.S. Air Force Foreign Technology
Division, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH, released for public distribution
Sept. 7, 1971.
[3] D. I. Butorin, N. A. Martynov, and P. Ya. Ufimstev, “Asymptotic Expres-
sions for the Elementary Edge Waves,,”Soviet J. Comm. Tech. Electron.,
vol. 33, no. 9, pp. 17–26, 1988.
[4] P. H. Pathak, “High frequency techniques for antenna analysis,” Proc.
IEEE, vol. 80, pp. 44–65, Jan. 1992.
[5] K. M. Mitzner, “Incremental length diffraction coefficients,” Aircraft
Div., Northrop Corp., Tech. Rep. AFAL-TR-73-296, April 1974.
[6] A. Michaeli, “Elimination of infinities in equivalent edge currents—Part
I,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat. , vol. AP-34, pp. 912–918, July
1986.
[7] E. F. Knott, “The relationship between Mitzners ILDC and Michaelis
equivalent currents,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. AP-33, pp.
112–114, Jan. 1985.
[8] E. F. Knott and T. B. A. Senior, “Comparison of three high-frequency
diffraction techniques,”Proc. IEEE, vol. 62, pp. 1468–1478, Nov. 1974.
===== PAGE 14 =====
CHOU et al.: NOVEL GAUSSIAN BEAM METHOD FOR THE RAPID ANALYSIS OF LARGE REFLECTOR ANTENNAS 893
[9] R. A. Shore and A. D. Yaghijian, “Incremental diffraction coefficients
for planar surfaces,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat. , vol. 36, pp.
55–70, Jan. 1988.
[10] P. H. Pathak, “Techniques for high frequency problems,” in Antenna
Handbook, Theory Application and Design , Y . T. Lo and S. W. Lee,
Eds. New York: Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1988.
[11] R. G. Kouyoumjian and P. H. Pathak, “A uniform geometrical theory of
diffraction for an edge in a perfectly conducting surface,” Proc. IEEE,
vol. 62, pp. 1448–1461, Nov. 1974.
[12] S. W. Lee and G. A. Deschamps, “A uniform asymptotic theory of EM
diffraction by a curved wedge,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol.
AP-24, pp. 25–34, Jan. 1976.
[13] D. A. McNamara, C. W. I. Pistorius, and J. A. G. Malherbe, Introduc-
tion to the Uniform Geometrical Theory of Diffraction. Norwood, MA:
Artech House, 1990.
[14] P. D. Einziger, S. Raz, and M. Shapira, “Gabor representation and aper-
ture theory,” J. Opt. Soc. Amer., vol. 3, pp. 508–522, Apr. 1986.
[15] J. Maciel and L. B. Felsen, “Systematic study of fields due to extended
aperture by Gaussian beam discretization,”IEEE Trans. Antennas Prop-
agat., vol. 37, pp. 884–892, July 1989.
[16] , “Gaussian beam analysis of propagation from an extended plane
aperture distribution through plane and curved dielectric layers, Parts I
and II,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. 38, pp. 1607–1624, Oct.
1990.
[17] F. J. V . Hasselmann and L. B. Felsen, “Asymptotic analysis of parabolic
reflector antennas,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat. , vol. AP-30, pp.
677–685, 1982.
[18] R. J. Burkholder and P. H. Pathak, “Analysis of EM penetration into and
scattering by electrically large open waveguide cavities using Gaussian
beam shooting,” Proc. IEEE, vol. 79, pp. 1401–1412, Oct. 1991.
[19] E. Heyman and R. Ianconescu, “Pulsed beam diffraction by a perfectly
conducting wedge: Local scattering models,” IEEE Trans. Antennas
Propagat., vol. 34, pp. 519–528, 1995.
[20] G. A. Suedan and E. V . Jull, “Two-dimensional beam diffraction by a
half-plane and wide slit,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. 35, pp.
1077–1083, 1987.
[21]
, “Beam diffraction by planar and parabolic reflector,”IEEE Trans.
Antennas Propagat., vol. 39, pp. 521–527, 1991.
[22] H. T. Anastassiu and P . H. Pathak, “High-frequency analysis of Gaussian
beam scattering by a two-dimensional parabolic contour of finite width,”
Radio Science, vol. 30, no. 3, pp. 493–503, May–June 1995.
[23] H.-T. Chou, P. H. Pathak, and R. J. Burkholder, “Feed array synthesis for
reflector antennas in contoured beam applications via an efficient and
novel Gaussian beam technique,” Radio Science, submitted for publica-
tion.
[24] W. Theunissen, private communication, July 1998.
[25] D.-W. Duan and Y . Rahmat-Samii, “A generalized diffraction synthesis
technique for high performance reflector antennas,” IEEE Trans. An-
tennas Propagat., vol. AP-43, Jan, 1995.
[26] P. Y . Ufimstev, “Method Drayevykh V oin V Fizicheskoy Theorii
Difraktsi,” Izd-Vo Sov. Radio, pp. 1–243, 1962. Russian version of [2].
[27] A. Michaeli, “Elimination of infinities in equivalent edge currents—Part
II,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. AP-34, pp. 1034–1037, Aug.
1986.
Hsi-Tseng Chou was born in ChangHua, Taiwan, in 1966. He received the B.S.
degree from National Taiwan University in 1988 and the M.S. and Ph. D. degrees
from The Ohio State University, Columbus, in 1993 and 1996, respectively, all
in electrical engineering.
He joined the Department of Electrical Engineering, Yuan Ze University,
Taiwan, in August 1998 and is currently an Assistant Professor there. He worked
with China Ryoden Co., Ltd. in 1990 for one year and then joined the Electro-
Science Laboratory at The Ohio State University as a Graduate Research As-
sociate from 1991 to 1996. After receiving his Ph.D. degree in 1996, he con-
tinued his work at the ElectroScience Laboratory as a Post-Doctoral Researcher
till 1998. His current research interests include antenna design, electromagnetic
scattering, development of asymptotic high-frequency solutions in the format
of the uniform geometrical theory of diffraction (UTD), novel Gaussian beam
techniques for the application of reflector antenna analysis/synthesis, and hy-
brid MoM-UTD type solutions for periodic structures.
Dr. Chou received a Young Scientist Award from the International Union of
Radio Science(URSI) and a best paper award from the ElectroScience Labora-
tory both in 1999, and has been invited to present papers at many international
technical conferences. Dr. Chou is a member of the IEEE Antennas and Propa-
gation Society and an elected member of US Commission B of URSI.
Prabhakar H. Pathak (M’76–SM’81–F’86) received the B.Sc. (hons.) degree
in physics from St. Xaviers College, Univ. of Mumbai, India, in 1962, the B.S.
degree in electrical engineering from the Louisiana State University, Baton
Rouge, and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from The
Ohio State University, Columbus, in 1970 and 1973, respectively.
He was an Instructor in the Dept. of Electrical Engineering at the Univ. of Mis-
sissippi during the academic year 1965–66, before coming to The Ohio State
University. Since 1973 he has been at Ohio State University ElectroScience
Lab., Dept. of Electrical Eng., where he is currently a Professor. Dr. Pathak has
contributed to the development of the uniform geometrical theory of diffrac-
tion (UTD) and some of its extensions, all of which are being widely used in the
analysis of antenna and scattering problems associated with complex structures,
such as aircraft, spacecraft and ships. Some of this research has also been in-
volved with an analysis of the problems of diffraction by discontinuities in the
geometrical as well as in the electrical properties of a surface; the latter cate-
gory includes surface wave structures. In addition, he has been involved with
the development of efficient hybrid methods for analysis of microstrip type
antennas, and more recently for dealing with complex radiating structures in-
cluding open-ended cavities. Currently, his work continues to be in the areas
of asymptotic high-frequency methods and the analytical inversion of the so-
lutions obtained therefrom into the time domain to arrive at a time dependent
progressing wave picture for transient radiation and scattering, and also in the
development of novel and fast methods of analysis/synthesis of electromagnetic
radiation by electrically large general reflector antenna systems and large-sized
finite arrays. His research interests are broadly in the areas of electromagnetic
theory, mathematical methods, antennas, and scattering. He has participated in
several invited lectures and short courses on the uniform geometrical theory of
diffraction and other high-frequency methods, both in the U.S. and abroad. He
has authored and co-authored chapters on the subject of high-frequency diffrac-
tion for five books.
Dr. Pathak is a member of Sigma Xi and a member of the U.S. Commission B
of URSI. He was named an IEEE Antennas and Propgation Society (AP-S) dis-
tinguished lecturer for a three-year term beginning in 1991. Currently he serves
as the chair of the IEEE AP-S Distinguished Lecturer Program. He received the
1996 Schelkunoff Best Paper Award from IEEE AP-S, and also the George Sin-
clair Award in 1996. He is the recipient of the IEEE Third Millennium Medal
which was awarded in July 2000 by the AP-S.
Robert J. Burkholder(S’85–M’89–SM’97) received the B.S., M.S., and Ph.D.
degrees in electrical engineering from The Ohio State University, Columbus, in
1984, 1985, and 1989, respectively.
From 1989 to the present, he has been with The Ohio State University Electro-
Science Laboratory, Department of Electrical Engineering, where he currently
has the titles of Research Scientist and Adjunct Associate Professor. His re-
search specialties are high-frequency asymptotic techniques and their hybrid
combination with numerical techniques for solving large-scale electromagnetic
radiation and scattering problems. He has contributed extensively to the EM
analysis of large cavities, such as jet inlets/exhausts, and is currently working
on the more general problem of EM radiation, propagation, and scattering in
realistically complex environments.
Dr. Burkholder is a full member of URSI Commission B, and a member of
the Applied Computational Electromagnetics Society (ACES).