===== PAGE 1 =====
Novel modular approach based on Gaussian beam 
diffraction for analysing quasi-optical multi-reflector 
antennas 
C. Rieckmann, M.R. Rayner, C.G. Parini, D.H. Martin and R.S. Donnan 
Abstract: A novel approach for analysing quasi-optical multi-reflector systems is presented. In the 
proposed method of analysis the input beam (from the feed or output from a previous reflector) is 
expanded into a set of elementary Gaussian beams. These are propagated to the reflector. 
Reflection is treated in a geometrical optics manner. Diffraction is treated by applying the 
canonical problem of a 3-D Gaussian beam incident upon an opaque Kirchhoff half-screen. Its 
asymptotic solution yields a so-called boundary-diffraction wave that complements the geometrical 
wave that corresponds to the reflected beam. The output beam is a superposition of all reflected 
and diffracted elementary beams and can again be expanded into a set of Gaussian beams, making 
the method modular and suitable for large multi-element quasi-optical systems. 
1 Introduction 
In many antenna applications, e.g. radiometers and radio- 
astronomy applications [ 1, 21 several quasi-optical reflectors 
are cascaded to form a feed system for an electrically large 
main reflector. Such quasi-optical antenna systems are used 
at increasingly high frequencies up to the terahurtz 
region. Methods for the design verification of quasi-optical 
(QO) systems are at present very limited. Geometrical optics 
(GO) does not account for the effects of edge diffraction. 
The geometrical theory of diffraction (GTD) is an extension 
to GO which includes diffraction effects but fails at caustics; 
this can be overcome by use of the uniform theory of 
diffraction (UTD). However, the method cannot easily be 
applied to multi-reflector systems because of its 
non-modularity due to multiple diffraction and caustics. 
In the context of ths work modularity requires that the 
fields at the interface between two modules need to be fully 
specified. A module is defined as being an input field defined 
on an input surface (either from a feed or the output field 
from a previous module), a reflector and the subsequent 
output field defined on an output surface. Simply specifying 
the transverse fields on the output surface (preferably 
normal to the main collimated field) does not give 
the direction of any scattered ray that forms part of this 
field. The subsequent input field to the next module is 
thus incorrectly defined. The only way to fully specify the 
fields on the output surface, and hence replace the ‘sources’ 
inside that surface, is to invoke the field equivalence 
principle and specify currents on the surface. Integration of 
these currents is then required to find the field (or currents) 
on the next reflector. This is equivalent conceptually to 
physical optics (PO). It is for this reason that commercial 
multi-reflector antenna analysis software do not use UTD 
0 IEE, 2002 
IEE Pruceedings online no. 20020390 
Dol: 10.1049/ip-map:20020390 
Paper first received 12th July 2001 and in revised form 25th February 2002 
The authors are with the Department of Electronic Engineering, Queen Mary, 
University of L.ondon, Mile End Road, London El 4NS, UK 
for systems with more than two reflectors and then in a 
non-modular way. 
Physical optics (PO) coupled with the physical theory of 
diffraction (PTD) is an accurate and modular method for 
analysing reflector antennas but is very expensive in terms 
of computation time and storage for electrically large multi- 
reflector systems. For the case of the near-field paraxial 
region of interest here we have found negligible difference 
between using PO and PO+PTD (undertaken using the 
GRASP8 software). Gaussian-beam optics has been 
successfully applied to the design of complete QO systems 
but it is unsuitable for full electromagnetic verification as it 
does not account for beam distortion and assumes 
negligible field at all reflector edges. Because of this most 
QO use excessively oversized reflectors to ensure a successful 
design. However, there is a growing need, especially in 
space-based systems, to make QO-fed systems as compact 
as possible. 
Chou et al. [3, 41 have already responded to this by 
developing a PO-based Gaussian beam analysis suited to 
the rapid computation of the total (reflected plus diffracted) 
scattered field from an electrically large reflector. As in ths 
work, it advances previous Gaussian beam methods of 
analysis by accounting for the presence of the rim of a 
reflector. Like Chou et al., the solution here to the problem 
of rapid analysis of large reflectors is based upon 
reformulation of the illuminating source field in terms of 
a series expansion of Gaussian basis functions. However, 
the construction and application (and therefore physical 
interpretation of the operation) of the Gaussian beam 
expansion of the source field is entirely different. 
We emphasise the key feature of modularity, to be 
elaborated upon below, as the significant development to 
the work of Chou et al. That is, the application of diffracted 
Gaussian beam analysis reported here, may be successively 
applied from reflector to reflector in a multi-antenna 
system. Ths prepares for future analysis of multi-antenna 
QO systems that may additionally incorporate intermediate 
signal processing components such as dichroics and wire 
grids. 
A technical advantage is also present here in the 
mechanics of the analysis of the source field into Gaussian 
IEE Pvooc-Microw. Antennus Propug., 149. No. 3, June 2002 160 
===== PAGE 2 =====
beams. Chou et al. [4] acknowledge the advantage of a 
Gabor-type expansion (as an alternative to the method they 
used), to provide a priori a complete analysis of the source 
field and to remove any arbitrariness in the choice of initial 
beam parameters, as they have, once the expansion lattice 
over the plane of the source has been constructed. We avoid 
their concern of a Gabor-type analysis restricting control on 
the choice of initial beam parameters by using a windowed 
Fourier transform. This achieves a regular mesh in phase 
space, as they desire for their method. A wavelet basis 
would, however, generate the irregular phase space mesh 
that they seek to avoid, for convenience of engineering 
application. 
Further comment on the additional matters related to the 
effects of double curvature in a reflector, upon reflection 
and diffraction processes, are respectively held over until 
Sections 2.2 and 2.3. 
The diffracted Gaussian beam approach (DGBA) tries to 
combine the numerical efficiency of a description in terms of 
beams, similar to the ray description used in GO, with the 
modularity and reliability of physical optics. In fact the 
DGBA may be regarded as a UTD-like operation, but now 
with PO-based Gaussian beams rather than with the 
conventional rays of GO, thereby being continuously 
operative over the entire face of the reflector from regions 
of focused (or nearly focused) fields across to the edge. 
A single step in the DGBA multi-reflector analysis is 
illustrated in Fig. 1. The incident field on an input plane, 
which could be either the near field of a feed or the radiated 
field from a previous QO reflector, is expanded in terms of 
fundamental 3-D Gaussian beam modes, each beam having 
a beamwidth of several wavelengths. The elementary beams 
are propagated to the reflector to be analysed. The change 
of the complex beam parameters by the reflector's curvature 
is calculated according to the laws of geometrical optics. 
The reflected beams are then propagated to the output 
plane. Those beams that hit the reflector at less than two 
beamwidths distance from the rim, suffer significant 
diffraction. Diffraction is treated by considering the edge 
at the nearest rim point to be straight. The asymptotic 
solution of the canonical problem of a Gaussian beam 
incident upon an opaque Kirchhoff half-screen [5] provides 
a diffracted field in terms of complementary error functions 
which complements the GO reflected beam. This is 
analogous to the GTD approach where a locally plane 
f I 
5 diffracted 
I 
I I 
I output 
; plane 
\ 
,'input / previous 
,' plane reflector 
Fig. 1 
analysis 
Illustration of u single ,step of the DGBA in a multi-reJector 
wave is incident. The combined reflected and diffracted field 
terms give a regular and continuous field withn the paraxial 
region of the reflected beam. Finally, all reflected and 
diffracted beams are superposed on an output plane. The 
total field on the output plane is again cast into a Gaussian 
beam expansion, making the method highly modular. 
2 Theory 
Here, the individual steps of a single reflector analysis with 
the diffracted Gaussian beam approach will be described in 
detail. These are: the expansion in terms of Gaussian beams, 
the reflection of Gaussian beams at curved surfaces, and the 
diffraction of Gaussian beams. 
2. I Gaussian beam expansion 
In [6] a very detailed description of the properties of the so- 
called windowed Fourier transform that was originally 
developed for signal analysis is given. This consists in 
multiplying the spatially shifted signal with a usually 
compactly supported window function and computing the 
Fourier coefficients of the product. The windowed Fourier 
transform as presented in [6] offers a higher degree of 
freedom than the well-known Gabor expansion [7]. Unlike 
Gabor's series representation, the spatial sampling rate can 
be chosen higher than according to the Nyquist criterion, 
and this oversampling leads to an advantage in terms of 
stability and convergence [SI. In [6] an algorithm to calculate 
the so-called 'dual frame function' for a 1-D Gaussian 
shaped window function is derived. The Gaussian beam 
expansion coefficients are then readily obtained by solving a 
convolution integral between the 1 -D complex-valued signal 
and the real-valued dual-frame function. In our application, 
we have the two transverse components E,, El,, of the 
electric field given on a plane z = 0 and want to expand the 
field in terms of circular beams. Generalising the expansion 
in [6] to a 2-D signal results in an expansion of the form 
with a Gaussian shaped window function 
where f' stands for either of the two transverse field 
components, L is the radius of the circular Gaussian beam 
and A,,,npl, is the expansion coefficient. The product sZOLO, 
where Lo represents the spatial shift and Q, represents the 
spectral shft, has to be chosen smaller than 27c (Gabor's 
representation) to ensure stability [8]. The smaller it is 
compared to 2n, the smoother the shape of the dual frame 
function, it then resembling more and more the Gaussian 
shape of the window function. Since the window function 
can be separated into the two transverse co-ordinates, so the 
2-D dual frame function iiiz-~(x, y) can also be written as 
the product of two 1-D dual frame functions. The 
expansion coefficients are then calculated as 
where iii is the dual frame function. Since ii, can be 
computed by evaluating a series expansion, determination 
of the expansion coefficients is best implemented by using 
the numerical efficiency of the two-dimensional FFT. Let 
the expansion be characterised by N contributing spectral 
IEE Proc.-Microw Anlenncis Propug.. I49, No. 3. June 2002 
===== PAGE 3 =====
terms and M contributing spatial terms per dimension such 
that InI,IvI rN/2 and Iml,lpl <M/2. Let A=27c/Qo be the 
spatial period corresponding to the spectral frequency Qo. A 
numerical evaluation (FFT) of the Fourier integral (see (3)) 
is based on the following identity: 
.7 N-I N-1 
where 
ik 
+ n/N)A - mlo)w((k + v/N)A - pLo) (4b) 
From the samples AmlIlly returned by the FFT algorithm the 
true - expansion coefficients 
Amnp,, are simply recovered by a simple re-indexing: 
AmnP,, 0 I n L N/2; 0 L v 5 N/2 
Am~+n,rll -N/2 I n<O; 0 5 v 5 N/2 
Amnp = { Amnfiv+N 0 5 n 5 N/2; -N/2 5 v<O 
-N/2 5 v < 0 Amn+~lcv+~ -N/2 I n < 0; 
(5) 
Based on the algorithm above, a block diagram realisation 
of the two-dimensional FFT processor of the expansion 
coefficients is depicted in Fig. 2. The quantity Q corre- 
sponds to the number of summands (ik) in (46) which 
depends' largely on the smoothness of the dual frame 
function as dictated by the product Q&,, the smoother the 
function, the smaller i and k. 
lmlGMI2: 
shift dual frame function 5 
by mN/2 points (QN points) 
I 
((MN)' points) 1 I 
(QNpoints) 
IpIG MI2: 
Fig. 2 
processor 
2-0 FFT implementation of the Gaussian beam expansion 
To describe the scalar field components E,, E" of each 
contributing term in the expansion everywhere in the half 
space z20, asymptotic techniques are employed. For the 
Gaussian shape of the window function, they yield simple 
and, under most circumstances, accurate results, which are 
readily interpretable in terms of complex beams and are 
paraxially equivalent to a complex source point response. 
Let BInnJx, y, z) denote the beam mode corresponding to 
the expansion coefficient AnlnPy in (1) such that 
f(x, Y,Z) = [A~~~~~ exp(j(mn + ~v)~o~O)~~mnpi~ 
(x,.Y,z); z L 0 (6) 
m ,n ,it, v 
Asymptotically we obtain 
The transformed coordinates pt and zt are linked with the 
Cartesian co-ordinates x, y, z and the spectral components 
162 
of the wavevector via the transformation 
zj =[nQo(x - mL0) + vQo(y - pLo) 
+Jk,z - (nQo)* - (vQ~)~z]/ko; ko = 27112 
p: = (x - mLo)2 + (y - p~o)~ + z2 - z: 
(sa) 
(~b:) 
zl can be viewed as the projection of the vector pointing 
from the source point (mh, pLo, 0)' to the observation 
point (x, y, z)' onto the direction 
of the wavevector. The complex beam parameter qnv(zI) 
absorbs all the information about the local spot size o(zt) 
and the local radius of curvature R(zJ of the beam at each 
axial position zt: 
It is noted that the asymptotic expression (7) in terms of a 
complex beam is accurate only withm the range of the 
paraxial approximation. Fig. 3 illustrates this interpretation 
of the expansion in terms of Gaussian beam modes, as a 
number of spectral Gaussian beam modes located at each 
spatial 'sampling point' separated by &. 
Fig. 3 Interpretation of' the expansion in terms of Gaussian beam 
modes 
2.2 Gaussian beam reflection 
Geometrical optics is applied to determine how the complex 
beam parameter q changes when a Gaussian beam impinges 
upon a curved reflector surface. At the reflection point, the 
spot size of the beam stays the same whde the curvature, 
which can generally be described by a set of two principal 
radii of curvature R,, R2 changes according to the local 
curvature of the reflecting surface. 
We consider a point 70 on a surface, which could be 
either a reflector surface or a wavefront, and locate a right- 
IEE Proc-Microw Antennas Propag., 149, No. 3, June 2002 
===== PAGE 4 =====
handed co-ordinate system (51, 52, A) at the point, with 2 
being the surface normal. 51 and t2 denote the two principal 
directions of curvature of the surface, and it is clear that one 
can describe the surface locally around the point 70 by the 
biparabolic expansion 
where RI and R2 are the two principal radii of curvature. 
The two principle directions 51 and 52 are uniquely 
described by one angle $. which denotes the rotation of 
tl in the plane normal to h with respect to a reference vector 
(3 x fi)/ljj x 21 in a mathematically positive sense. Hence 
for all local points of a wavefront or of a reflector surface 
the local curvature can be characterised by a set of 
curvature parameters (fi, RI, R2, $). 
Let us consider the case of an incident differential 
ray strip with local curvature parameters (?,R; ,R;, Y') 
that impinges upon a reflector with local curvature 
parameters (2, R; , R;, Y') at an incident angle 0 relative 
to the surface normal (Fig. 4). We want to detemline 
the curvature parameters (if ,R;, R;, Yr) of the reflected 
ray strip. The direction of the reflected ray, using Snell's 
law, is 
i' = i' + 2 cos(8)k (11) 
Fig. 4 Rejection ofa Gaussian beam at a curvedsirrface: geometry 
It is convenient to do all calculations in the ray-based co- 
ordinate system (t'ic>r, t,.,.,) as illustrated in Fig. 4. (uf,cir, 
u',~") from (IO) are simply related to (t','.,., by the 
transformations 
The rotation angles follow from simple geometrical 
calculations since Y'," and the unit vectors of the ray-based 
co-ordinate system are known. Matching the phase between 
the incident and the reflected wavefront on the reflector 
surface [9] and dropping all third and higher order terms 
results in an equation system for the curvature parameters 
sin (2a,) A 
Yr is easily calculated from a,,, by computing the principal 
directions of the reflected ray strip in terms of the ray-based 
co-ordinate system and taking the scalar product with the 
reference vector. The reflected beam is approximated by a 
circular beam with a complex beam parameter 
-I 
q= (m+J$) 1 
and the diffraction theory for circular Gaussian beams, as 
presented in the next subsection, is applied. 
Applying the conventions of this subsection, the 
numerical results in Section 3 for the example of an offset 
Cassegrain configuration have met criteria that establish a 
compromise between the local spot size of an elementary 
beam being small with respect to the radii of curvature of 
the reflector, and being large enough to maintain a paraxial 
beam condition as it propagates to the reflector. Specifically, 
a support width (or window) for the Gaussian kernel is 
chosen in proportion to the reflector diameter (D), and 
displacement of the reflector from the source aperture, such 
that a beam spot size of 6.42 (at 30GHz) results when the 
field is sam led at the Nyquist rate 42. The far field 
distance 20 12, where beam spreading begins, is 0.82 m. 
This determines, for example, the location of the input 
expansion plane that illuminates the first reflector. 
2.3 Gaussian beam diffraction 
In [5], diffraction of a Gaussian beam with a circular spot 
size normally incident upon an opaque Kirchhoff half- 
screen was investigated based on the boundary-diffraction 
wave (BDW) theory. There, the evaluation of the 
boundary-diffraction wave by the steepest descent method 
yielded the uniform asymptotic representation of the total 
diffracted field consisting of the geometrical optics compo- 
nent (geometrical wave) and diffraction components in 
terms of complementary error functions (boundary-diffrac- 
tion wave). An attempt was made to extend the analysis of 
[5] to elliptical Gaussian beams. Unfortunately, an asymp- 
totic representation of the Kirchoff integral is prohibited, 
the poles being anti-symmetric with respect to the stationary 
point. We note, however, that proper account of the effect 
of reflector bi-curvature upon the BDW may be made by 
otherwise expressing the amplitude and phase components 
of the field quantity of the Kirchoff integral in terms of a 
curvature (or phase) matrix that has complex rather than 
real-valued elements [3]. In this respect too, (13) may be 
modified to describe general reflection from a bicurvature 
reflector by being derived from a curvature matrix having 
P 
IEE Proc.-Microw. Antennus Propay.. 149, No. 3. June 2002 163 
===== PAGE 5 =====
half-screen 
Gaussian beam z'j-zO 
amplitude (ell - - 
*- -------., 
Fig. 5 
stuttering reglion) 
Geoinetr-v ofthe cunonicul problem solved in (51 (forrvurd- 
complex rather than real-valued elements. Fig. 5 depicts the 
geometry of the problem. The incident beam is assumed to 
propagate in the z-direction. P(x, y, z) is the observation 
point and Q(xo, yo, zo) is a source point of boundary- 
diffraction located on the boundary r of the half screen. 
2.3.1 Field representation in the backward-scat- 
tering region: The solution of this canonical problem is 
not repeated since it can be found in [5]. Instead, we show 
how the solution can be adopted in the context of a single 
reflector analysis. The formulation presented in [5] cannot 
be used directly since we are interested only in the diffracted 
field in the backward-scattering region (z<O). We try to 
find an equivalent geometry to describe the diffracted field 
in the backward-scattering region. Firstly, in addition to the 
incident wave we have a reflected wave in the backward- 
scattering region. Ths can be characterised by an image 
beam at the opposite side of the half-screen, the same in 
magnitude but opposite in sign to the incident beam. 
Secondly, the reflected beam is propagating in the (-z)- 
direction and diffraction has to be described in a new co- 
ordinate system with the transformed x-, y- and z-axes 
pointing in the (-x)-, y- and (-z)-directions, respectively. 
Thirdly, in the equivalent geometry the equivalent half- 
screen must be complementary to the true half-screen to 
generate a shadow region in the lower half-space (~(0). 
The boundary diffraction wave, however, does depend only 
on the location of the edge and not on the orientation of the 
half-screen. Fig. 6 shows the equivalent geometry for 
calculating the diffracted field for the geometry shown in 
Fig. 5 in the backward-scattering region. 
To check the accuracy of the asymptotic method, the 
problem of a normally incident Gaussian beam upon a 
z =-z 
Gaussian beam 
half-screen 
Fig. 6 
the buck,~~urd-scuttering region 
Equivalent geometry for determining the difructedjeld in 
Kirchhoff half-screen has been analysed with the commer- 
cial reflector analysis tool GRASPS [lo], using physical 
optics. Fig. 7 shows the field in the backward-scattering 
region for different beamwidths in comparison with 
GRASP. The fields are calculated for a near field cut with 
the co-ordinates 0, = 0; z = -3002). The parameter a in 
Fig. 5 is chosen to be zero. It is seen from the results that the. 
boundary diffraction theory is very accurate near the beam 
axis. Outside the paraxial region, the results start to deviate 
from the physical optics results but even there the deviation 
is not more than a decibel or two. 
Fig. 8 shows a comparison with GRASP physical optic:$ 
for various values of the parameter a (see Fig. 5). The field 
has been calculated at the same near field cut as in Fig. 7 
and the half-beamwidth wo has been chosen to be eight 
wavelengths. Again, the agreement within the paraxial 
region is excellent and outside the paraxial region the 
agreement is still reasonably good, keeping in mind that the 
field levels are low. 
2.3.2 Generalisation to oblique incidence: As- 
sume that the direction of propagation of the incident 
beam is still perpendicular to the edge of the half-screen. 
However, the orientation of the half-screen may now be 
non-perpendicular to the direction of propagation. Fig. 9 
depicts the geometry of the discussed problem, showing all 
involved co-ordinate systems. We have three different co- 
ordinate systems: the transmitted beam-related co-ordinate 
system (xt, y,, z,), the reflected beam related co-ordinate 
system (x,, y,, zr) and the half-screen based co-ordinate 
system (x,y, z). The origins of the transmitted and reflected 
beam related co-ordinate systems are such that the location 
of the edge corresponds to a zero axial position in both co- 
ordinate systems. The origin of the half-screen based co- 
ordinate system is the intersection point between the 
incident and reflected beam axes and the plane of the 
half-screen. Since normal incidence is assumed with respect 
to the polar angle, the y-direction is the same for all three 
co-ordinate systems. Let q be the incidence angle, being 
defined as the angle between the negative of the direction of 
propagation (-2,) and the surface tangential unit vector 
normal to the edge of the half-screen (2). The observation 
point is described in the half-screen based cylindrical @, q, 
y)-coordinate system. The transmitted and reflected beams 
propagate in the (n + qo)- and (n-qo)-direction, respec- 
tively. Their co-ordinate systems are expressed in terms of 
the half-screen co-ordinate system by simple translation and 
rotation around the y-axis: 
+ 1 
( 15b) 
Since the boundary 'diffraction wave is obtained as a line 
integral along the edge and does not depend on the 
orientation of the half-screen, we are now in a position to 
apply the equations governing the original geometry in 
Fig. 5 in terms of the reflected beam related co-ordinate 
system (x,.,yr,zr). The offset distance a from the edge (see 
Fig. 5) is related to the axial position z, of the edge in the 
half-screen based co-ordinate system (Fig. 9) by 
a = z, sin(cpo). 
Fig. 10 shows a comparison of the theory with GRASP 
physical optics for various orientations of the half-screen as 
164 IEE Proc-Microw. Antennas Propug., 149, No. 3, June 2002 
===== PAGE 6 =====
- PO; wo = 4 E. 
0- 
W 
W 
$ -20 - 
- 
- 
9 
-30 - 
Fig. 7 Comparison of the backscat teredjield with physical optics for various beam spot sizes 
0=0, ~=-300/1 
-200 -1 50 -1 00 -50 0 50 100 150 200 
x, 1 
Fig. 8 Compurison of the backscatteredjeld with physical optic.7 for variom values of the parameter u (for geometry in Fig. 5) 
HV, = SL, z = - 300 I, 
being characterised by the angle qo. With respect to the 
polar angle, normal incidence is assumed (0 = 90'). The field 
has been calculated at the same near field cut as in Fig. 7 
and the half-beamwidth wo has been chosen to be eight 
wavelengths. The parameter a equals zero. From the results 
it is seen that the agreement within the paraxial approxima- 
tion is still very good, although there are some slight 
deviations even near the reflected beam centre for non- 
normal incidence. They grow progressively for more oblique 
angles. 
It would be desirable to derive a solution for non-normal 
incidence with respect to the polar angle (the angle 0 in the 
yz plane of Fig. 9). In the classical GTD canonical problem 
of a plane wave incident on a half-screen the field 
components along the edge can be separated from the 
transverse components allowing the solution for normal 
Fig. 9 Equivulent geometry for determining the clijjiructedjield in incidence to be used to construct a general solution. 
the backward-scattering region ut oblique incidence Unfortunately, in our general problem the incident 
incident beam 
IEE Proc-Microw Antennas Propnq., 149, No. 3, June 2002 I65 
===== PAGE 7 =====
paraboloid, - 
Fig. 10 
for various orientations of the half-screen 
Comparison of the backscattered field with physical optics 
IVO = 82, u = 0. if = -3001. 
Gaussian beam cannot be separated into three Cartesian co- 
ordinates. It can, however, be shown that for non-normal 
incidence with respect to the polar angle within a first-order 
approximation the same stationary point and the same 
shadow boundary and the same poles are obtained as for 
noma1 incidence. Our conclusion is that for incidence 
angles close to 90" the results for the equivalent geometry in 
Fig.9 can still be applied. For 8 incidence, the beam 
direction of the transmitted and reflected beams change 
according to geometrical optics and the transmitted and 
reflected beam related co-ordinate systems are now rotated 
by (7c/2-0) around the x-axis compared to the case with 
normal incidence. Geometrically, the geometrical optics 
beams are rotated together with their associated diffraction 
components. Of course, this treatment involves an approx- 
imation error, whch is very small for almost normal 
incidence and gets larger for more oblique incidence angles. 
It is noted, that in quasi-optical systems the distance 
between the reflectors is usually much larger than their 
diameter such that the beams are well within the validity of 
the paraxial approximation and hence the condition of near 
normal incidence is well fulfilled. 
3 Numerical Results 
To validate the proposed method and to show its 
modularity the offset Cassegrain configuration shown in 
Fig. 1 1 was analysed at 30 GHz. Field plots on various near 
field planes are shown and the results are compared to those 
of a physical optics analysis with the commercial reflector 
analysis package GRASP. At 30 GHz the subreflector and 
main reflector have diameters of approximately 402 and 
1002, respectively. 
The far field pattern of the feed was assumed to be 
Gaussian illuminating the subreflector edge at a level of 
-6dB. The structure was analysed in two steps. The input 
field plane for the analysis of the subreflector was chosen 
0.8m away from the feed. The elementary beams in the 
Gaussian beam expansion were eight wavelengths wide. 
3.5m lm 3m 
Geometry of a Cassegruin antenna test case Fig. 11 
-50 '"'~""~""~""~'"'~""~~"'~""' 
-200 -150 -100 -50 0 50 100 150 200 
x,, 1 
-10 
-20 
m 
7J 
2 -30 
9 
- 
- 
._ c 
40 
-50 
-1 .o -0.5 0 0.5 1 .o 
radius, m 
Fig. 12 
30 GHz with the results of physical optics 
Comparison of the near field from the subreflector ut 
The output plane was chosen to be 2m away from the 
subreflector in a plane perpendicular to the line AB. Fig. 12 
shows the output field in the offset plane in comparison to 
PO calculations obtained with the commercial reflector 
analysis code GRASP. The agreement is excellent. In the 
second step the output field of the subreflector was 
expanded into a new set of Gaussian beams. These were 
traced to the main reflector employing the diffracted 
Gaussian beam analysis. Fig. 13 shows the electric field in 
the offset plane at a distance of 4.5m from the main 
reflector. Again, the agreement with PO results is very good. 
4 Conclusions 
A novel diffracted Gaussian beam approach for analysing a 
quasi-optical multi-reflector system has been proposed. The 
method is especially well suited to the analysis of electrically 
large multi-reflector systems where physical optics is 
computationally expensive. As opposed to GTD, the new 
method is hghly modular and does not suffer from caustic 
problems. It has been tested for an offset Cassegrain 
configuration and good agreement with PO has been 
obtained. 
IEE Proc-Microw. Antennus Propay., 149, No. 3, June 2002 166 
===== PAGE 8 =====
I - DGBA; E-plane r 
-10 
-20 
m D 
m 
z- -30 
._ - 
40 
-50 
-1 .o -0.5 0 0.5 1 .o 
radius, m 
Fig. 13 Cornparison of the near,field jrom the main reflector ut 30 GHz with the results of physical optics 
References 
KILDAL, P.-S.: ‘Synthesis of multireflector antennas by kinematic 
and dynamic ray tracing’, IEEE Trans. Antennas Propug., 1990, 38, 
MARTIN, R.J., and MARTIN, D.H.: ‘Quasi-optical antennas 
for radiometric remote-sensing’, Electron. Commun. Eng. J., 1996, 
pp. 37-48 
CHOU, H.-T., and PATHAK, P.H.: ‘Uniform asymptotic solution 
for the EM reflection and diffraction of an arbitrary Gaussian 
beam by a smooth surface with an edge’, Radio Sci., 1997, 32, (4), 
CHOU, H.-T., PATHAK, P.H., and BURKHOLDER, R.J.: ‘Novel 
Gaussian beam method for the rapid analysis of large reflector 
antennas’, ZEEE Trcms. Antennas Propug., 2001, 49, (6), pp. 88G-893 
TAKENAKA, T., and FUKUMITSU, 0.: ‘Asymptotic representa- 
tion of the boundary-diffraction wave for a three-dimensional 
pp. 1587-1599 
pp. 1319-1336 
Gaussian beam incident upon a Kirchhoff half-screen’, J. Opt. Soc. 
Am., 1982, 72, (3), pp. 331-336 
DAUBECHIES, I.: ‘The wavelet transform, time-frequency localisa- 
tion and signal analysis’, IEEE Trans. In$ Theorjl, 1990, 36, (5), 
6 
VV. 961-1005 
7 EINZIGER, P.D., RAZ, S., and SHAPIRA, M.: ‘Gabor representa- 
tion and aperture theory’, J. Opt. Soc. An?. A, Opt. Image Sci., 1986,3, 
(4), pp. 508-521 
LUGARA, D., and LETROU, C.: ‘Alternative to Gabor’s repre- 
sentation of plane aperture radiation’, Electron. Lett., 1998, 34, (24), 
pp. 2286-2287 
9 DESCHAMPS, G.A.: ‘Ray techniques in electromagnetics’, Proc. 
IO GRASP8 reflector analysis code user manual, TICRA, Copenhagen, 
Denmark 
8 
ZEEE, 1972, 60, (9), pp. 1022-1035 
IEE Proc.-Microw Antennas Propug., 149, No. 3, June 2002 167 